README.md, before:

# MAPR

Stands for **M**arcus' **A**lgorithm for **P**seudo-3D **R**endering

I have created my own **3D rendering engine** from scratch. It takes a birds-eye view of a level filled with walls and it renders a first-person perspective from the players position.

This project is made with **no dependencies** whatsoever. Everything you see on the page was created by me. I've worked on this for almost two years and I am continuously adding features and improvements for it.

It runs in any web browser and it is compatible with touch screen devices.

![Screenshot of the web page](./img/PageScreenshot/webpage.png)

---

## Documentation

Since I submitted this project as a high school graduation project, I wrote some documentation explaining how the engine works. It was originally written in french but I have translated in english too. Both PDFs can be found under [/documentation](./documentation/) ([/documentation](./documentation/mapr_en.pdf) and [/documentation](./documentation/mapr_fr.pdf))

I had to write it for non tech-savy people so some of the explanations can seem rather basic. In the future, I am planning on rewriting better documentation with more code-oriented explanations.

---

## Structure

- index.html
- scripts/
  - main.js
  - scenes.js
  - rules.js
  - x.js
- styles/
  - x.css

## Custom levels

If you want to create custom levels, download my code follow these instructions:

The main page is contained on the [index.html](index.html) file.
The main script running the game loop is [main.js](scripts/main.js). New levels (or scenes in the code) can be created with a function inside the [scenes.js](scripts/scenes.js) file. That function can be called inside the switch case statement of the `loadScene()` function. Then, in the [main.js](scripts/main.js) file, you can replace the loadScene string with whatever you include in it.
To create custom rules for a level, take example of existing scene functions (the last two `infiniteCorridor() and weirdCorridor()` for example) to see how to reassign the `currentRule()` function. Inside the [rules.js](scripts/rules.js) file, you can add a custom function inside the rules object. That function's name is the one you assign to `currentRule()` inside [scenes.js](scripts/scenes.js).

I have plans to create proper documentation in the future, but this might help with creating some custom levels.

---

This project was created for a high school graduation project and it's based on a pseudo-3D way of rendering called [Raycasting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_casting). While I started out implementing it, I ended up not liking the way it looked so I set out to create my own technique for rendering. I also decided to create a cool acronym for it, because it is a whole new method I have yet to come across. Hence, the name MAPR. ([Also the domain name for the web site](https://mapr.me/))

I wrote a full report about how all the features work in french. [It can be found here](https://github.com/animarcus/raycasting/tree/main/dossierEcrit). The folder includes a markdown file that I used to convert into a pdf with Pandoc. I plan on translating the whole document but I do not have the time yet.

---

## A different approach to 3D rendering

In my last year of high school, I had to give in a report as a graduation project. I was fascinated by the use of Raycasting for use in a rendering engine, just like what the first 3D games like [Wolfenstein 3D](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfenstein_3D) did.
My plan was to use an exisiting method to create my own 3D rendering engine that would make it easy for anyone to create levels in which one could explore from a first person perspective. However, after implementing it, I didn't like how pixelated it looked and the fact that if you wanted more detail you would need to greatly increase the number of rays, which most likely lowers performance. [A demonstration can be found here](http://mhamelink.com/raycasting-v2) or the code can be found on my github page [under the raycasting-v2 repository](https://github.com/animarcus/raycasting-v2)

So I went to work to create a new algorithm to fix my problem. By drawing polygons for the walls, I can have much more detail without having to generate any rays in-between because I'm using the wall's vertices for the calculations.

I was able to apply what I had learned throughout the year in math class on vector geometry and I also discovered the use of Graphs for POSETs (Partially Ordered Sets for which we use DFS to sort).

Commit message:

Documentation for both english and french version.

README.md, after:

# MAPR

Stands for **M**arcus' **A**lgorithm for **P**seudo-3D **R**endering

I have created my own **3D rendering engine** from scratch. It takes a birds-eye view of a level filled with walls and it renders a first-person perspective from the players position.

This project is made with **no dependencies** whatsoever. Everything you see on the page was created by me. I've worked on this for almost two years and I am continuously adding features and improvements for it.

It runs in any web browser and it is compatible with touch screen devices.

![Screenshot of the web page](./img/PageScreenshot/webpage.png)

---

## Documentation

Since I submitted this project as a high school graduation project, I wrote some documentation explaining how the engine works. It was originally written in french but I have translated in english too. Both PDFs can be found under [/documentation/pdf](./documentation/pdf/) ([english version](./documentation/pdf/mapr_en.pdf) and [original french version](./documentation/pdf/mapr_fr.pdf))

I had to write it for non tech-savy people so some of the explanations can seem rather basic. In the future, I am planning on rewriting better documentation with more code-oriented explanations.

---

## Structure

- index.html
- scripts/
  - main.js
  - scenes.js
  - rules.js
  - *.js
- styles/
  - *.css

## Custom levels

If you want to create custom levels, download my code follow these instructions:

The main page is contained on the [index.html](index.html) file.
The main script running the game loop is [main.js](scripts/main.js). New levels (or scenes in the code) can be created with a function inside the [scenes.js](scripts/scenes.js) file. That function can be called inside the switch case statement of the `loadScene()` function. Then, in the [main.js](scripts/main.js) file, you can replace the loadScene string with whatever you include in it.
To create custom rules for a level, take example of existing scene functions (the last two `infiniteCorridor() and weirdCorridor()` for example) to see how to reassign the `currentRule()` function. Inside the [rules.js](scripts/rules.js) file, you can add a custom function inside the rules object. That function's name is the one you assign to `currentRule()` inside [scenes.js](scripts/scenes.js).

I have plans to create proper documentation in the future, but this might help with creating some custom levels.

---

This project was created for a high school graduation project and it's based on a pseudo-3D way of rendering called [Raycasting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_casting). While I started out implementing it, I ended up not liking the way it looked so I set out to create my own technique for rendering. I also decided to create a cool acronym for it, because it is a whole new method I have yet to come across. Hence, the name MAPR. [See here for the live demo](https://animarcus.github.io/MAPR)

---

## A different approach to 3D rendering

In my last year of high school, I had to give in a report as a graduation project. I was fascinated by the use of Raycasting for use in a rendering engine, just like what the first 3D games like [Wolfenstein 3D](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfenstein_3D) did.
My plan was to use an exisiting method to create my own 3D rendering engine that would make it easy for anyone to create levels in which one could explore from a first person perspective. However, after implementing it, I didn't like how pixelated it looked and the fact that if you wanted more detail you would need to greatly increase the number of rays, which most likely lowers performance. [A demonstration can be found here](http://mhamelink.com/raycasting-v2) or the code can be found on my github page [under the raycasting-v2 repository](https://github.com/animarcus/raycasting-v2)

So I went to work to create a new algorithm to fix my problem. By drawing polygons for the walls, I can have much more detail without having to generate any rays in-between because I'm using the wall's vertices for the calculations.

I was able to apply what I had learned throughout the year in math class on vector geometry and I also discovered the use of Graphs for POSETs (Partially Ordered Sets for which we use DFS to sort).
